---
layout: post
title:  "Hack This Site: Basic"
permalink: /hackthissite/basic
---



## Basic Level 1
---------------
This level is pretty easy. We are told that this
level is a "idiot test." Lets show them that we
are everything but! It is a common trend in Web
Application challenges like this, that the very
first level's password can be found in the 
comments of the HTML code. We can look at the
source code for this web page by right-clicking,
and selecting _View Page Source_. This should
open another tab that has the HTML source code
for this web page. We can scroll down this page,
and find the source code for the input box, which
is called a `form` in HTML. Above the form, we
can see that there is an HTML comment, which is
of the form `<--X-->`. This comment has our
password, which we can copy and paste to pass
this level.

## Basic Level 2
----------------
In my honest opinion this level is even easier
than the first level. This one states that the
password file was not uploaded, which means that
the value to which our input will be compared to
is `NULL`. So, to input `NULL` all that we must
do is to press _Submit_ without inputting
anything into the form. This should complete the
level and make us into 1337 haxxors.

## Basic Level 3
----------------
In this level, the password file has been uploaded,
which means that we must find out how to get access
to that file. If we look at the source for the web
page, we can see that there is a file named
_password.php_. We can open this file by modifying
the URL of the challenge site. We can add the file
name to the URL of the challenge so that it looks
like this `www.hackthissite.org/missions/basic/3/password.php`.
This should open the file, and present to us the
password for this level.

## Basic Level 4
----------------
For this challenge we will have to modify the
source code for the website to redirect the email
to ourselves. We can do this by right-clicking,
and selecting the _Inspect Element_ option. This 
brings up the page source within the same window,
and we can navigate this source to find the portion
that has the button that sends the email. Once we
find this location within the code, we can then
double click on the email that is written in the
code and replace it with the email that we used to
create our HTS account. Once we change the destination
email address to our own, we can click the button and
receive an email from HTS containing the password
for this level.

## Basic Level 5
----------------
This level requires the exact same process as level 4.

## Basic Level 6
----------------
Level 6 requires a bit of work for us to solve, but is
not hard to do. We need to find an ASCII chart so that
we can decrypt this password. From inputting a long
string of "a"'s we can see that each character is the
ASCII value plus its position within the string, with
the count starting at 0. Thus, we can reverse engineer
our password, and check it with the encryption tool
provided to us.

## Basic Level 7
----------------
On this challenge, we are told about the Linux command
`cal`, this command displays the calendar for the given
year, or the current month if no input is provided. This
can be exploited due to the fact that this is a SHELL 
command, which is taking input from our browser, so we
can force the SHELL to perform other commands alongside
the `cal` command by using a semicolon. By inputting `;ls`
we should be able to see the calendar for the current month,
and the obfuscated password file. We open this file the
exact same way that we did in level 3 to get our password.

## Basic Level 8
----------------
This level is pretty challenging if you are not familiar
with some of the more obscure web technologies. If we
input something into the field asking for your name, you
should be presented with a link that takes you to another
page that gives you some information about what you entered
into the text field. From this page's URL, we can see that
we are in the _/tmp_ directory, and we are looking at a
weirdly named file with a `.shtml` file extension. An SHTML
file allows us to send commands to the server on which the
website is hosted. If the previous challenges are an 
an indicator for forms on this challenge site, we can be
sure that this form is likely to be insecure. We can exploit
this by inputting some SHTML code into the form to see if it
will run. We can input `<!--#exec cmd="ls"-->` which is telling
the server to execute the command `ls`. This should display
all files within the current directory, which in this case
is _/tmp_. We can change into the proper directory by going 
up one directory when we perform the `ls` command. So, going
back to the input box, we can input `<!--#exec cmd="ls .."-->`.
This should print the contents of the wanted directory. We can
now see the obfuscated password file, and we should be able to 
view its contents using a similar process that we used in earlier
levels.

## Basic Level 9
----------------
With this level we can solve it using the level 8 page. So, what
we can do is go back to level 8, and check the contents of the
level 9 directory. We can input `<!--#exec cmd="ls ../../9"-->`
and thus see the file for level 9's password, and get our
password for the level to move on to level 10.

## Basic Level 10
-----------------
In this level we are told that all we have to do is enter the
password. We can input any random junk into the form and see
what it says. It says that we don't have access to the next
level, but how does it know whether or not we have access and
not tell us if our password was wrong. Now we must go back to
the level 10 page we can check our cookies by opening up the 
_Inspect Element_ and search through the panels until we find
the cookie information. We can modify one particular cookie that
talks about access to level 10, which is set to _no_. We can
modify this to _yes_and then input a random password to complete
the level.
