---
title:  "Kickoff Fall 2021"
permalink: /meetings/Kickoff_Fall_2021
tags: meetings
author: therealjman
---

*"There are only two types of companies: those that have been hacked, and those that will be."*

This statement from former FBI director Robert Muller is becoming more and more accurate in today's world as new major cyber attacks make the news seemingly every month. While these threats are ever-present today, there are many people that go into the field of cybersecurity to help defend against these attackers. Cybersecurity specialists can take many forms, some work by helping companies find vulnerabilies before the bad guys do so they can be patched, while some help defend the company when there is an attack. Regardless of how, cybersecurity professionals play a vital role in today's society. That is why in this club we hope to give people skills that allow them to become knowledgable and informed cyber analysts.

# Club Overview

## Who We Are

We are the Auburn University Ethical Hacking Club, or EHC for short. EHC is a child organization of the Auburn branch of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and is student run, focusing on teaching people various cybersecurity topics and participating in security-focused competitions thoughout the year. Our current leadership for the upcoming year is below and can also be found on the [about page](https://ehc.auburn.edu/about/) of our website.

- **President**: Charlie Harper

- **Vice President**: Ethan Johnson

- **Secretary**: Jon Aldridge

- **Treasurer**: Mauren Baker

- **Public Relations**: Vicki McLendon

- **Webmaster**: Enoch Yang

- **Technical Leads**: Zach Leggett and Tripp Isbell

## What We Do

We touch on almost every aspect of cybersecurity, covering on defensive, or "blue teaming", offensive, or "red teaming", and combinations of the two, "purple teaming." We do this by covering many different topics over the course of the year, teaching things such as cryptography, malware reversing, and penetration testing. Our meetings are **Tuesday evenings** from **5pm to 7pm CDT**, and keep an eye on the [Discord](aub.ie/ehc-discord) annoucements channel for where they are and to access them online. One basic building block of security that serves as a foundation for many of the topics we will cover is the CIA Triad: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. A short description of what each of those points mean is below.

- Confidentiality: Ensuring that information can only be seen by those who have access to it.

- Integrity: Ensuring that information has not been unknowingly modified.

- Availability: Ensuring that information is readily accessible to those who need it.

Not only do we present and teach various topics, we also participate in many cybersecurity competitions that also cover a wide variety of interests. Some of the competitions and events we have done in the past and hopefully will do again in the future are below.

- *Capture the Flag (CTF) Competitions*: There are typically many of these throughout the year, with all sorts of topics and skill levels being covered, from beginner-friendly CTFs to very difficult ones.

- *SECCDC*: A blue team focused event, where the team defends a network against attackers in real time, having to balance keeping services running and keeping the bad guys out.

- *CPTC*: A red team focused event, set out to mimick a real-life penetration testing scenario where teams need to both be able to identify weaknesses and convey those in an understandable way to less technical personel.

- *TracerFire*: A blue team event, where teams put digital forensics skills to work to build a timeline for a mock incident by analyzing the data left behind from the attack.

In addition to these, we also participate in other events thoughout the year, so keep on eye on our Discord announcements channel and our website calendar to see what we have coming up.

## Fall 2021 Schedule

We plan to cover some very interesting topics this Fall, which can be seen either below or on our [calendar](https://ehc.auburn.edu/calendar/) page.

- **09/7 & 09/14**: Cyber Bootcamp

- **09/21 & 09/28**: Cryptography

- **10/05**: Reconnaissance

- **10/12**: Exploitation

- **10/19**: Game Hacking

- **10/26 & 11/02**: Reversing

- **11/09**: Social Engineering/OSINT

- **11/16**: Lock Picking

- **11/30**: Wrap-up

As always, we hope you can make to all of our meetings this semester and you learn some valuable skills from them!

# Slideshow

<iframe src="//docs.google.com/gview?url=http://github.com/auehc/auehc.github.io/blob/master/assets/powerpoints/kickoff_fall2021.pptx&embedded=true" style="width:600px; height:500px;" frameborder="0"></iframe> 
